,url,id,date,receiver,content
0,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/philip-jones-prevention-of-future-deaths-report-2/,Ref: 2025-0111,27/02/2025,N/A,N/A
1,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/joshua-leatham-prosser-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0110 ,27/02/2025,N/A,N/A
2,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/khadija-kerri-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0109 ,25/02/2025,N/A,N/A
3,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/janet-scott-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0108 ,20/02/2025,Northumberland Childrens and Adults Safeguarding Partnership 1,"During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. – (1) Although individual agencies referred me to training they had provided to staff since Ms Scott's death, I also received evidence that, for instance, the GP surgery might not raise a safeguarding referral if the same circumstances were repeated because social services had already been informed. This leads me to be concerned that the message that 'safeguarding is everyone's responsibility' has not been taken on board. I am concerned that future cases will occur in which a multiagency approach is not adopted or that individuals will not make safeguarding referrals because they assume that other agencies are already aware of the issue. (2) (3)"
4,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/pamela-marking-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0107 ,24/02/2025,"• Chief executive, NHS England • National Medical Director, NHS England • Chief Medical Officer, England • Health Secretary, Department of Health • Chief Executive, CQC • President - GMC • President - Royal College of Anaesthetists • President - Association of Anaesthetists of GB and Ireland • President – Difficult Airway Society • President - Royal College of Emergency Medicine • President - Royal College of Physicians • Chief Executive, Surrey and Sussex Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust","1. The term ‘Physician Associate’ is misleading to the public Mrs Marking’s son was under the mistaken belief that the Physician Associate was a doctor by this title in circumstances where no steps were taken by the Emergency Department or the Physician Associate to explain or clearly differentiate their role from that of medically qualified practitioners. 2. Lack of public understanding of the role of Physician Associate Witnesses from the Trust gave evidence that a Physician Associate was clinically equivalent to a Tier 2 resident doctor without evidence to support this belief. This blurring of roles without public knowledge and understanding of the role of a Physician Associate has the potential to devalue and undermine public confidence in the medical profession whilst allowing Physician Associates to potentially undertake roles outside of their competency thereby compromising patient safety. 3. The right of patients and family to seek a second opinion The lack of public knowledge that a Physician Associate is not medically qualified has the potential to hinder requests by patients and their relatives who would wish to seek an opinion from a medical practitioner. It also raises issues of informed consent and protection of patient rights if the public are not aware or have not been properly informed that they are being treated by a Physician Associate rather than a medically qualified doctor. 4. Lack of national and local guidelines and regulation of the scope of practice for a Physician Associate A diagnosis of epistaxis was made by the Physician Associate without appreciating the relevance of the vomiting and lower abdominal discomfort and in the absence of understanding the need to undertake palpation of the groins in an abdominal examination in a patient who was unable to give a proper clinical history because of short term memory loss. No evidence was presented that the management of Mrs Marking was subject to a reflective practice review. Given their limited training and in the absence of any national or local recognised hospital training for Physician Associates once appointed, this gives rise to a concern they are working outside of their capabilities. 5. Lack of guidelines for direct supervision and consideration of an appropriate level of autonomy for Physician Associates Whilst there were discussions with the ‘supervising’ consultant the Physician Associate was effectively acting independently in the diagnosis, treatment, management and discharge of Mrs Marking without independent oversight by a medical practitioner. This gives rise to a concern that inadequate supervision or excessive delegation of undifferentiated patients in the Emergency Department to Physician Associates compromises patient safety. 6. Lack of ‘Updated’ National Guidelines for Rapid Sequence Induction (RSI) of Anaesthesia for emergency surgery Mrs Marking required a rapid sequence induction to protect her airway from aspiration of bowel contents as a consequence of small bowel obstruction. The consultant anaesthetist gave evidence that the ‘traditional’ use of consecutive syringes of induction agent and muscle relaxant was obsolete, and it was common practice locally and nationally to routinely undertake a RSI with Total Intravenous Anaesthesia, in the absence of updated local or national guidelines to support this practice. 7. Lack of ‘Updated’ National Guidelines to support the use of TIVA for RSI Other than empirically increasing the rate of infusion of TIVA agents (Propofol and Remifentanil) no evidence was forthcoming as to the target range required to ensure and confirm an adequate depth of anaesthesia for patients or the length of time required prior to and following the administration of a muscle relaxant (Rocuronium) to facilitate intubation. This is despite TIVA being known to provide a slower onset of anaesthesia and approximately 50% of all anaesthetic related deaths are due to aspiration (NAP 4). 8. Lack of ‘Updated’ Guidelines for use of Cricoid pressure and other measures to protect the airway in a RSI anaesthetic Evidence was heard that as cricoid pressure was ineffective it was not routinely applied for a RSI intubation. After aspiration on Induction, the only suction device was attached to the nasogastric tube giving rise to a possible delay in timely suctioning of the feculent aspirate which was in excess of two litres after intubation was achieved. ACTION SHOULD BE TAKEN In my opinion action should be taken to prevent future deaths and I believe that the people listed in paragraph one have the power to take such action. YOUR RESPONSE You are under a duty to respond to this report within 56 days of its date; I may extend that period on request. Your response must contain details of action taken or proposed to be taken, setting out the timetable for such action. Otherwise, you must explain why no action is proposed. COPIES I have sent a copy of this report to the following: 1. Mr Marking - Son In addition to this report, I am under a duty to send the Chief Coroner a copy of your response. The Chief Coroner may publish either or both in a complete or redacted or summary form. He may send a copy of this report to any person who, he believes, may find it useful or of interest. You may make representations to me at the time of your response, about the release or the publication of your response by the Chief Coroner. Signed: Karen Henderson DATED this 24th Day of February 2025"
5,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/isaiah-olugosi-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0106 ,24/02/2025,", Governor of HMP Wormwood Scrubs 1","During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed the following matter giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTER OF CONCERN is as follows. - The buzzer/intercom system must have been provided because it was thought important to provide that additional means of communication between the prison and the outside world. In this case, a working system would have enabled the Deceased's wife to warn the prison of his impending suicide. This could happen again in the future if there was another problem with the telephone system during the night state. It is difficult to understand why the buzzer/intercom system has not worked for several years. There was evidence that it is irreparable. But the proposed solution appeared to be either to leave it as it is (still not working) or to remove it altogether. The jury found that the failure to provide a working buzzer/intercom system was a failure. It is a matter of concern that the prison/the Ministry of Justice still considers that it is unnecessary."
6,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/amy-padley-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0105 ,24/02/2025,THIS REPORT IS BEING,"During the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to a concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to make a report under paragraph 7, Schedule 5 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 and Regulations 28 and 29 of the Coroners (Investigations) Regulations 2013 The MATTERS OF CONCERN is as follows: I am concerned about the evidence I heard in this inquest that when an individual is suffering from alcohol or drug addiction alongside a mental health diagnosis, which in this case was EUPD and depression, that the focus of SUBHB is normally to advise that individual to address their addiction before they can access mental health services. I heard that addiction services do not fall within the remit of SUBHB and are provided by third-sector agencies. I heard that individuals who have a mental health diagnosis may self -medicate to manage symptoms of a mental health deterioration and that increased use of alcohol/drugs can increase the risk of self-harm to such individuals which may prove fatal. I am concerned that there is no guidance to staff within SBUHB on how to manage individuals with addiction and a mental health diagnosis and how SUBHB staff should liaise with and work alongside third-sector agencies in respect of an individual suffering from addiction. I am also concerned that there appears to be a reluctance within SBUHB to offer mental health support alongside suggesting that an individual access addiction services. I am concerned that this may mean that individuals in mental health crisis and suffering from addiction may not be getting the mental health assessment and support that they require alongside seeking to overcome their addiction and as such there is continuing risk to life."
7,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/paul-dunne-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0104 ,21/02/2025,1. Oxleas NHS Foundation Trust 2. Care Quality Commission 3. NHS England 4. Secretary of State for Health 1,"Many of the failings have been addressed locally. But during the course of the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths could occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN addressed to Oxleas and CQC are as follows. – 1. Individual mental health professionals appeared to have gaps in knowledge and judgment. The director who was spokesperson for the Mental Health Trust did not appear to appreciate the seriousness of these deficits.  A mental health liaison nurse, who now is alarmingly manager of these nurses, did not recognize the patient as high risk, despite his having been persuaded to attend A&E by the police against his will, having just expressed suicidal ideation, made a previous attempt, with alcohol intoxication and absconsion, as at the time he denied suicidality. Even in retrospect in court she did not acknowledge her misjudgement. She also asserted incorrectly that a patient who has mental capacity cannot be assessed under the Mental Health Act.  A mental health nurse of 9 years standing in the Home Treatment Team who acknowledged the risk to the patient’s life could hardly be higher, failed to document his assessment, as he could not find anywhere to write it before going on his break. No staff acknowledged that he had informed them of the risk. He assumed the patient would get 1:1 monitoring, but did not direct anyone to the need. When asked what he would have done if he had known there were no staff to conduct 1:1 monitoring, he rather lamely said that he could perhaps hang around for a bit longer. 2. The Mental Health Trust  Staff and it appears the director even at the time of the inquest did not appreciate that the A&E policies (Missing Persons, Shared Care) which required risk assessment after an absconsion and alerting managers to the need for extra temporary staff if 1:1 monitoring was needed, also applied to MH staff.  Evidence was heard that staff in KCH A&E and Oxleas NH Trust had been trained on different risk assessment documents. Although meetings had been reinstated between departments, there had been no audit of absconsions or MH liaison in A&E. The MATTERS OF CONCERN addressed to NHSE and DH are as follows. 3. MH staff and A&E staff write their clinical records in different systems and hospital staff do not have access to MH Rio records. MH staff attending A&E departments are asked to make a double entry in the A&E records as well. Here that was omitted, potentially with fatal risks. Moving to a combined electronic system (now identified as EPIC) has long been the aim of the local health providers, but evidence was heard that the pace of introduction, which is very slow, is in the hands of national NHS leadership."
8,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/ann-cotgrove-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0103 ,21/02/2025,"BCUHB, Ysbyty Gwynedd, Penrhosgarnedd, Bangor, Gwynedd LL57 2PW. 1","During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed the following matter giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTER OF CONCERN is as follows. – That there was no record of any discussions which took place been Glan Clwyd and the tertiary centre and no formal documented process in relation to such referrals and the subsequent advice which was provided and thereafter acted upon. Coroner's Office, County Hall, Wynnstay Road, Ruthin, LL15 1YN Tel 01824 708047 |"
9,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/duncan-holloway-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0102 ,20/02/2025,1. Chief Executive Officer British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) BACP House St John’s Business Park Lutterworth Leicestershire LE17 4HB 2. Chief Executive Officer North London NHS Foundation Trust St Pancras Hospital 4 St Pancras Way London NW1 0PE 1,"During the course of the inquest, the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion, there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances, it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. For BCAP: 1. Mr Holloway’s BCAP accredited psychotherapist did not make any notes of her consultations with him, because he had asked her not to. She gave evidence that she is not bound by law or ethics to keep any notes. Is it appropriate that there is no minimum standard of note keeping following psychotherapy consultations? 2. The psychotherapist said that she had never before had a client who was suicidal. She said that this is not taught at university, though she had completed a post graduate course in working with suicidal ideation. Can it be right that suicidality is completely omitted from BCAP accredited psychotherapy training? 3. When Mr Holloway’s friend contacted the psychotherapist to say that he was missing, knowing that he had neither attended nor cancelled their last consultation the psychotherapist was very concerned for his safety. She instructed the friend to go round to his home, but it did not occur to her to call the police. The friend did this, but can it be right that contacting the police in such a situation is not taught as part of psychotherapy planning? 4. The psychotherapist explained in court that she was angry that Mr Holloway’s friend disclosed to her that Mr Holloway had died, asking the friend: “Do you have any idea how this impacts me and my ability to do my job going forward?” The psychotherapist said that she (the psychotherapist) was in distress and shock. 3 In hindsight, the psychotherapist said that she wished she had referred Mr Holloway to a psychotherapist with more experience in suicidality, she said at inquest because she did not want to be in this situation again with this responsibility. Should there be a mechanism of ensuring that a psychotherapist who is unable to deal with suicidality does not practise with clients who may experience this? For BCAP and North West London NHS Trust: 5. Mr Holloway was seen and fully assessed by North West London clinicians when he was taken to hospital by police following an episode of self harm on 30 June 2024. Police attendance had been prompted by Mr Holloway’s brother, calling from abroad. Mr Holloway’s brother was particularly disappointed that it seemed as if Mr Holloway’s care was not joined up between the different agencies."
10,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/lady-lola-crouch-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0101 ,21/02/2025,1. Chief Executive of Mid & South Essex NHS Trust 1,During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. – (1) Lady Lola was not informed of the findings of potential malignancy from a CT scan in December 2022. This was not followed up and was then not given as part of the history when Lady Lola attended hospital in February 2023. (2) Staffing levels – A Medical Emergency call was not triggered overnight on the surgical ward when elevated NEWS scores required medical review that was escalated but delayed due to doctor staffing levels.
11,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/paul-collingridge-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0100 ,20/02/2025,1. Secretary of State for Transport 2. Chief Executive of Essex County Council 3. Director of Hatton Traffic Management 4. Director of Affinity Water 1,During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. – (1) Where Road Works Permits are required by utility companies these are often urgent to carry out vital repairs. This can mean that roadworks are set up in hours of darkness and may cause difficulties calculating distances as set out in the Safety at Street Works Code of Practice. (2) The Safety of Street Works Code of Practice sets out how to take measurements to set out street works that include utlising street furniture that are at set distances and standard road markings that have standard lengths on carriageways with specific road speeds. a. Some carriageways do not have street furniture b. Some of the road markings on the carriage where the fatal collision did not comply to standard lengths and therefore the markings can have variations. c. The Code of Practice does not set out how to calculate the distance where there is road curvature where the road markings have differing lengths on opposing sides where the markings are delineated on bends in a carriageway. (3) A road works warning sign was placed at the junction that joined the carriageway of a road that obscured visibility of traffic joining the main carriageway. Whilst this did not cause or contribute to this incident this was not in accordance with the Code of Practice. (4) The fatal incident that occurred on 6 December 2022 was not notified on the retrospective permit application for roadworks on the following day. There is no requirement for a fatality within roadworks be notified on application for an application for a permit . 3
12,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/ronald-bainborough-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0099 ,18/02/2025,"1. , Secretary of State for Justice, Ministry of Justice 2. , Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police 1","During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths could occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. – (1) During the Inquest, evidence was heard from 2 consultant psychiatrists and an Approved Mental Health Act Professional (AMHP) regarding the timescales for applying for and executing s135(1) warrants. All of them had concerns about the time taken for a warrant to be issued and executed (2) The warrant application was submitted to the Magistrates Court on 18 August 2023, the hearing took place on 23 August and it was intended that the warrant would be executed on 7 September 2023. This was a timescale of 20 days. The jury was told that this timescale was typical of the time taken to apply for and execute a s135(1) warrant in the experience of the professionals giving evidence at the Inquest. (3) Applications for a warrant are heard at Westminster and Uxbridge Magistrates Courts which consider applications from all 32 London Boroughs. There are a limited number of video hearing slots, so AMPH teams may have to wait several days for a hearing. (4) Once a warrant has been issued, an appointment then needs to be arranged for police officers to execute the warrant. The evidence before the court was that it would generally take in the region of 10 days for an appointment to be scheduled. (5) There is no official fast track procedure. Consequently, there is a risk of harm to the individual and others during the time taken for a warrant to be granted and executed. 3 (6) As individuals have been identified as requiring assessment under the Mental Health Act, the risk of potential harm is recognised. In the absence of treatment, there is an ongoing risk that individuals will harm themselves or others before the warrant can be executed. This includes a risk of fatal harm."
13,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/zahra-mohamed-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0098 ,18/02/2025,"1. , Secretary of State for Justice, Ministry of Justice 2. , Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police 1","During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths could occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. – (1) It was accepted that a s135(2) warrant should have been applied for on 4 October 2022. However, if an application had been submitted to the magistrates’ court that day, it is unlikely that the warrant would have been executed before Mrs Mohamed’s death. In evidence, I was informed by a number of mental health professionals that the time taken for a s135(2) warrant to be obtained from the magistrates’ court and executed by the police was in the region of 2 weeks. (2) The process for obtaining a warrant is that an application has to be made for a video hearing at either Uxbridge or Westminster Magistrates’ Courts. It could take several days for a hearing to be arranged as the courts consider applications from all 32 London Boroughs. Once the Magistrates issued a warrant, an appointment would then be arranged for the police to execute the warrant. (3) I was informed that a 2-week timescale for obtaining s135(2) warrants was still the case in the summer of 2024. (4) I also heard evidence that the mental health team could attend Highbury Corner Magistrates’ Court in person to apply for a warrant in urgent cases but that they were actively discouraged from using this process by the court. (5) The court heard that the process and timescale for issuing and executing warrants had led to the hospital team adopting a practice of asking the community team to encourage a patient to return to hospital voluntarily before making an application for a warrant. (6) There is an ongoing risk that patients will harm themselves or others in the period before the warrant can be executed. This includes a risk of fatal harm. 3"
14,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/hayley-beavington-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0097 ,20/02/2025,1. Chief Executive Officer North London NHS Foundation Trust St Pancras Hospital 4 St Pancras Way London NW1 0PE 1,"During the course of the inquest, the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion, there is a risk that future deaths will occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances, it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. When planning for Ms Beavington’s discharge from hospital, it was agreed that the best place for her to go was a local crisis house. Upon application, the foundation year 1 doctor (FY1) was told by the crisis house team that this was not possible because: - Ms Beavington had secure accommodation; and - she was no longer actively suicidal. This was despite the fact that: - there was a strong suspicion that Ms Beavington was the victim of cuckooing in her own home; and - the team view was that she was definitely at risk of suicide. The consultant psychiatrist in charge of Ms Beavington’s care did not give the FY1 any instruction as to how to challenge the decision that the consultant believed was wrong. Instead, the consultant instructed the FY1 to leave it for three days and then just try again in the same way. By this time, Ms Beavington decided that she had waited too long and did not want another attempt to be made. Ms Beavington was discharged home and killed herself at 1am the next morning."
15,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/margaret-rodgers-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0096 ,19/02/2025,Chief Executive Surrey and Sussex Healthcare NHS Trust Trust Headquarters East Surrey Hospital Canada Avenue Redhill RH1 5RH 2,"The MATTERS OF CONCERN are: The court heard that whilst the Trust has implemented a number of recommendations arising out of the patient safety review following Mrs Rodgers death, a number have yet to be resolved in particular: a. NICE and the National Wound Care Strategy guidance is that patients admitted to hospital have a pressure ulcer risk assessment within 6 hours of admission. This means that the first assessment will often need to be undertaken in the Emergency Department (ED). The court heard that the work to ensure that the ED completes such assessments is ongoing and not yet embedded and that there are practical difficulties, for example when ED patients were located on corridors. b. The court also heard that in December 2023 to January 2024, the period of Mrs Rodgers admission, the hospital was experiencing a high level of operational pressures and that on occasions the ward itself had insufficient nursing staff levels to meet the demand of acutely ill patients with high dependency needs. The Trust is undertaking a review of the staffing template for the ward, but that work is not complete and not yet incorporated into the budget. The coroner is concerned that in not completing the above recommendations arising out of the patient safety review, the Trust is placing patients at risk of early death. 7 ACTION SHOULD BE TAKEN In my opinion action should be taken to prevent future deaths and I believe that the people listed in paragraph one above have the power to take such action. 8 YOUR RESPONSE You are under a duty to respond to this report within 56 days of its date; I may extend that period on request. Your response must contain details of action taken or proposed to be taken, setting out the timetable for such action. Otherwise you must explain why no action is proposed. 9 COPIES I have sent a copy of this report to the following: 1. Chief Coroner 2. Mrs Rodgers family 10 Signed: Susan Ridge S K Ridge H.M Assistant Coroner for Surrey Dated this 19th day of February 2025"
16,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/philip-unwin-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0095 ,19/02/2025,1 Royal Stoke University Hospital 2 NHS England 1,"During the course of the investigation my inquiries revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths could occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows: (brief summary of matters of concern) Although the conclusion of the inquest was one of Natural Causes there was evidence of a failure for medical teams to respond to concerns that the patient was deteriorating whilst awaiting assessment in the resuscitation area of the Emergency Department of Royal Stoke University Hospital. It was accepted by witnesses from the hospital that the patient should not have deteriorated to a 'moribund' state within that area of the hospital when concerns Regulation 28 – After Inquest Document Template Updated 30/07/2021 had been raised by staff and family, and that review and escalation to intensive care should have been initiated sooner (albeit the evidence was that this did not more than minimally contribute to the death). As a result of the concerns raise by hospital staff regarding missed opportunities to escalate care in a timely manner the hospital undertook a Patent Safety Incident Investigation (PSII). As a result of that investigations a number of recommendations were made with assurances given to the report author that work is being undertaken to review and amend policies and procedures focused on reviewing, escalating and referring deteriorating patients. However, the inquest was told that although the Emergency Department Resuscitation area was where the illest patients were placed awaiting review, staffing levels were not in compliance with national guidance. The Royal College of Emergency Medicine (RCEM) “Nursing Workforce Standards for Type 1 Emergency Departments” (Appendix 5) states “There will be a minimum of Registered Nurse to each patient in the resuscitation area”. The recommendation continued that there should be a named nurse allocated to each patient which should be 1:1 as per National Guidance. The concern is that the current model of staffing within the Emergency Department Resus area is not in compliance with national guidance and the recommendations following internal investigation into the care afforded to the deceased have not been acted upon in this respect."
17,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/kenneth-clayton-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0094 ,19/02/2025,Secretary of State of The Department of Health and Social Care 1,"During the course of the inquest the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concern. In my opinion there is a risk that future deaths could occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows. – 1. The inquest heard evidence that a key factor in the fall was the prolonged time Mr Clayton was in the Emergency Department waiting for a bed to become available on a ward. The evidence was that he had been in the emergency department for about 8 hours when he fell. The inquest was told that the design of an Emergency Department is not suited to a need for prolonged observation of high falls risk patients. In addition generally patients are cared for on hospital trolleys which cannot be lowered in the way a hospital bed can be which further increases the risk of falls. 2. Prolonged waits in Emergency Department were on the evidence given to the inquest not unusual. As an example the court was told that on the morning the inquest was heard there were patients who had been waiting 40 hours for a bed on a ward. 3. The inquest was told that the primary reason for the challenges in moving patients through the Emergency Department was availability of beds. The evidence given was that the main challenge in freeing up beds was delayed discharge of patients who were medically ready for discharge but who needed a care package or a care home place to facilitate a safe discharge. 4. The inquest was told that for patient safety it was important, that whilst there were delays in ED throughput of patients, that a robust falls risk management system was in place. Tameside Hospital had put additional measures in place to manage falls risk in ED in a more consistent way but it was unclear what steps were in place nationally to manage falls risk in a consistent way in Emergency Departments."
18,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/carl-eastman-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0093 ,17/02/2025,The Chief Executive Officer Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust Anne Bryans House 77 Fleet Road London NW3 2QG 1.,"During the course of my investigation and the inquest, the evidence revealed matters giving rise to concerns. In my opinion, there is a risk that future deaths could occur unless action is taken. In the circumstances it is my statutory duty to report to you. I heard evidence from both a consultant geriatrician and the head of nursing for the AMEDEC division. I was provided with an action plan from the Trust, which sets out numerous measures that the Trust has already put in place or plans to put in place. The concerns I am bringing to your attention by way of this report, relate to matters that do not appear, as yet, to have been considered by the Trust. The MATTERS OF CONCERN are, as follows: 1. The consultant geriatrician’s evidence was that CT scan was requested to take place ‘as soon as possible’ following the first unwitnessed fall on 25 July 2024; however, they accepted that this was not conducted in a timely manner. Further, following the second unwitnessed fall on 28 July 2024, there was a further delay in a CT scan taking place. I was told that this scan should have been conducted within 1-2 hours of the request being made, yet it took place over three hours after the patient was reviewed by the doctor and the request for the scan was made. In Mr Eastman’s case, the delays in receiving the scans transpired to be immaterial in the particular circumstances. However, I am concerned that if delays in such scans, where traumatic injury is suspected, are repeated in the future, there is a risk that deaths could occur. 2. There was evidence of what I considered to be ‘widespread communication issues’ in the care provided to Mr Eastman. These included: • When the on-call doctor attended to review Mr Eastman at approximately 02:45 on 28 July 2024, ward staff (incorrectly) told the doctor that nobody had fallen on the ward, which lead to the doctor leaving the ward without Mr Eastman having been reviewed. As the consultant geriatrician said in his evidence, communication between the ward staff and medical staff was not good. • The evidence revealed that there were deficiencies in basic record keeping. 3. As set out above, there was clear evidence that the Trust has put extensive measures in place to address the issue of staff having not followed the Trust’s own post-fall procedures and protocols. However, I am concerned that the issue may not be limited to just those particular protocols and may be indicative of a wider skills/knowledge deficit. 4. Following on from the matter set out in paragraph 3 above, the evidence revealed a lack of professional curiosity on the part of some staff members (nursing and medical). In my view, this could also be indicative of an underlying skills/knowledge deficit. 6. ACTION SHOULD BE TAKEN In my opinion, action should be taken to prevent future deaths and I believe that you have the power to take such action. 7. YOUR RESPONSE You are under a duty to respond to this report within 56 days of the date of this report, namely by 14 April 2025. I, the coroner, may extend the period. Your response must contain details of action taken or proposed to be taken, setting out the timetable for action. Otherwise, you must explain why no action is proposed. 8. COPIES and PUBLICATION I have sent a copy of this report to the Chief Coroner and to the following persons: • Mr Eastman’s family; and • The Care Quality Commission. I am also under a duty to send the Chief Coroner a copy of your response. The Chief Coroner may publish either or both in a complete or redacted summary form. She may send a copy of this report to any person who she believes may find it useful or of interest. You may make representations to me, the coroner, at the time of your response, about the release or the publication of your response by the Chief Coroner. 9. Ian Potter HM Assistant Coroner, Inner North London 17 February 2025"
19,https://www.judiciary.uk/prevention-of-future-death-reports/jeffrey-tyler-prevention-of-future-deaths-report/,Ref: 2025-0092 ,18/02/2025,The Minister for Health (Wales) 1,"The MATTERS OF CONCERN are as follows: - In evidence I found that the call handlers had been following the correct algorithm as dictated by the nationally adopted Medical Priority Dispatch System (MPDS), and that he was appropriately categorised as requiring an Amber 1 ambulance. However, it would also have been clear to any clinician that he was deteriorating and was in the process of having a cardiac event. Mr Tyler was on his own and could not inform the ambulance service if his condition deteriorated. Despite Mr Tyler being alone and being in extremis, the MPDS Code was maintained at Amber 1. The waiting time was between 5 and 7 hours."
